En Croissant FV — custom project

Based on En Croissant 0.15.1, upstream commit 23f83142fcbd4d3af60a524855defe8c9a5703fe.
Source: https://github.com/franciscoBSalgueiro/en-croissant
License: GPL-3.0-only (see LICENSE).

Use
1. Open a new tab and click Explore openings.
2. Search by opening name, variation name (for example Haxo), or ECO code.
3. Select a result to preview its moves.
4. Click Open opening line to replay it from the initial position.
   Or select Save as a new repertoire, choose a name and colour, and create it.

The FV app uses the existing En Croissant account/settings profile and game
databases (org.encroissant.app), plus the normal EnCroissant documents folder.
The original app is kept as Old En Croissant.app. Use one app at a time, because
they share settings and data. Official binary updates are disabled in FV so
they cannot overwrite custom features. Update the source and rebuild instead.

Project: ~/Documents/EnCroissantFV
Installed app: /Applications/En Croissant FV.app
GitHub fork: https://github.com/francescos123/en-croissant-fv
Original source remains available through the upstream Git remote.

Build
pnpm install --frozen-lockfile
pnpm exec tauri build --bundles app -- --locked

Verification
pnpm test
pnpm lint
cargo test --locked opening::tests --manifest-path src-tauri/Cargo.toml

Verified locally on 1 October 2026
- 43 frontend tests passed, including full-line replay and saved orientation.
- 3 native opening tests passed.
- Type checking and production build passed.
- Lint: no errors; 52 existing project warnings.
- On-screen: searched Haxo and C44 Haxo, replayed all 8 moves, saved
  Scotch Game - Haxo Gambit, and reopened it from Files with practice available.
- Initial feature verification used the temporary En Croissant Openings build.
  The permanent installed build is named En Croissant FV.

Add a played line to a repertoire
1. In the analysis move list/tree, right-click the last move you want to keep.
2. Choose Add to Repertoire, then choose an existing repertoire.
3. Review the attachment point and number of new moves, then click Add.

The selected line ends at the clicked move; later moves and sibling variations
are not imported. Matching uses the chess position (pieces, turn, castling and
legal en-passant rights), ignoring move counters. The declared training start
is preferred; otherwise the earliest shared position at or below that start
is used. If multiple branches match, select the branch explicitly. A repertoire
starting on the initial board can accept any legal line from that board.

Existing moves, main-line order, comments, headers and training progress stay
intact. New branches are appended. Duplicate lines are detected. Open clean tabs
are refreshed; unsaved changes must be saved first. The native save checks that
the PGN has not changed, creates a hidden .before-add-*.bak file beside it, and
atomically replaces the PGN. Metadata and training records are not rewritten.

Validation for repertoire merging
- Position matching, custom FEN roots, marked training starts, transpositions,
  ambiguous branches, duplicate lines, comments, multiple games, move counters,
  castling/turn/en-passant differences, and invalid starts/illegal moves.
- Real move-tree extraction stops at the clicked move on a side variation.
- Inactive tabs refresh through the same queued session storage as live edits.
- Native tests cover exact backups, unchanged metadata and stale-write refusal.
- 54 frontend tests passed; 2 native merge-save tests passed.
- Type checking and lint passed (52 existing warnings, no errors).
- Native UI check: right-clicked Haxo's Bc5, selected a temporary repertoire
  marked to start after Nc6, added 4 moves, and verified its already-open tab
  refreshed with the original Bb5/a6 main line and comment still present.
- Verified the exact pre-merge backup and unchanged .info metadata.
- Installed the updated FV bundle without closing the user's active session;
  the new menu becomes available after quitting and reopening En Croissant FV.
